Redpanda Business Source License 1.1

<u>License</u>: BSL 1.1

<u>Licensor</u>: Redpanda Data, Inc.

<u>Licensed Work</u>: Redpanda The Licensed Work is © 2020
Redpanda Data, Inc.

<u>Additional Use Grant</u>: You may make use of the Licensed Work,
provided that you may not use the Licensed Work for a Streaming or
Queuing Service. A "Streaming or Queueing Service" is a commercial
offering that allows third parties (other than your employees and
individual contractors) to access the functionality of the Licensed Work
by performing an action directly or indirectly that causes the creation
of a topic in the Licensed Work. For clarity, a Streaming or Queuing
Service would include providers of infrastructure services, such as
cloud services, hosting services, data center services and similarly
situated third parties (including affiliates of such entities) that
would offer the Licensed Work in connection with a broader service
offering to customers or subscribers of such of such third party’s core
services.

<u>Change Date</u>: Change date is four years from
release date. Please see [GitHub releases](https://github.com/redpanda-data/redpanda/releases/)
for exact dates

<u>Change License</u>: [Apache License, Version
2.0](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0), as published by the
Apache Foundation.

Text of BSL 1.1

The Licensor hereby grants you the right to copy, modify, create
derivative works, redistribute, and make non-production use of the
Licensed Work. The Licensor may make an Additional Use Grant, above,
permitting limited production use.

Effective on the Change Date, or the fifth anniversary of the first
publicly available distribution of a specific version of the Licensed
Work under this License, whichever comes first, the Licensor hereby
grants you rights under the terms of the Change License, and the rights
granted in the paragraph above terminate.

If your use of the Licensed Work does not comply with the requirements
currently in effect as described in this License, you must purchase a
commercial license from the Licensor, its affiliated entities, or
authorized resellers, or you must refrain from using the Licensed Work.

All copies of the original and modified Licensed Work, and derivative
works of the Licensed Work, are subject to this License. This License
applies separately for each version of the Licensed Work and the Change
Date may vary for each version of the Licensed Work released by
Licensor.

You must conspicuously display this License on each original or modified
copy of the Licensed Work. If you receive the Licensed Work in original
or modified form from a third party, the terms and conditions set forth
in this License apply to your use of that work.

Any use of the Licensed Work in violation of this License will
automatically terminate your rights under this License for the current
and all other versions of the Licensed Work.

This License does not grant you any right in any trademark or logo of
Licensor or its affiliates (provided that you may use a trademark or
logo of Licensor as expressly required by this License).TO THE EXTENT
PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, THE LICENSED WORK IS PROVIDED ON AN “AS IS”
BASIS. LICENSOR HEREBY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES AND CONDITIONS, EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING (WITHOUT LIMITATION) WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, AND
TITLE.
