- Feature Name: Red Panda Keeper
- Status: draft
- Start Date: 2018-02-09
- Authors:
- RFC PR: (PR # after acceptance of initial draft)
- Issue: (one or more # from the issue tracker)

# Summary

Red Panda Keeper is a binary that will be a Swiss Army Knife CLI application to interact with Red Panda queue. 

In order to provide high productivity and be distinguishable, installation, configuration and operation of the system must be clear, easy and user friendly. That is why Red Panda needs state of the art ops tool. In order to achieve that, it is planned to use modern CLI framework that will handle multiple configuration sources and deliver great user experience. The CLI system will help users and developers to interact with Red Panda in structured, understandable and easy way. 

# Motivation

The RPK is intedented to be the single application used to interact with Red Panda low latency queue. 

It will allow operators to:

- Download & install chosen version of Red Panda
- In future Setup developer cluser in docker-compose (same as Cockroach DB does)
- Tune the system
- Configure the queue
- Interact with the cluster
- Read the WAL files

# Guide-level explanation
TBD
# Reference-level explanation
The Red Panda Keeper CLI is going to be developed in Go using Cobra/Viper CLI development framework. The framework provides easy way to build CLI applications with support for flags, multiple configuration sources and user friendly output. 
## Detailed design
TBD
## Drawbacks
TBD
## Rationale and Alternatives
TBD
### Alternatives
- Oclif - Node Js based CLI framework based on NodeJS
- Knack - Python based CLI framework

## Unresolved questions
